# TDI_Capstone

In the midst of a global pandemic, the US has struggled to control the spread and prevent casualties related to COVID-19. As the virus sweeps across the country, public officials have struggled to enact policies that are effective in mitigating its effect. Despite public health recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), World Health Organization (WHO) as well as world renowned physicians and scientists, it remains unclear which specific preventative policies are effective for reducing COVID-related hospitalizations and deaths. Unlike other world nations, the United States is unique in a way that it is a heterogeneous society that accommodates diverse cultures and people. Even within a particular state, there are wide disparities between different communities. As such, there may not be a blanket one-size-fits-all approach in tackling COVID-19 spread. My project aims to identify policies that would be most effective based on state-based characteristics. This targeted approach would better inform policymakers to create more specific and informed policies that would best benefit their constituents. 

I will achieve this by first examining how the health systems within each US state has fared in response to COVID-19 pandemic. I will rely on The COVID Tracking Project dataset for statistics on daily number of new hospitalizations and deaths. To illustrate the differential impact of COVID-19 across states based on their policies, I have identified two states, New York (NY) and Florida (FL), that vastly differ in their COVID-19 policies. In the first plot I created (LINK), NY, which has a very stringent COVID-19 policy has been shown to struggle with COVID-19 cases at the beginning of April but had quickly mitigated this and sustained low deaths until today. In contrast, FL, which has a more tolerant policy, has reported a different pattern of deaths throughout the pandemic. Other policies that I will also examine will include stay-at-home orders, business shutdowns, mask-mandates, and travel restrictions.

Next, I will create subzones within each state based on characteristics such as population density and income that would allow examination of the effectiveness of policies within each subzones. Using publicly available census tract data, I will determine several classes of subzones i.e. high density and low income, high density high income, and so forth. Based on this subclasses, I will examine the effectiveness of state policies on COVID-19 spread as measured through hospitalizations and deaths frequency. The second plot I have created (LINK) illustrates the variation in population density across three different US states (Colorado, New York, and Wyoming), demonstrating variability in population characteristics that is meaningful for further examination. 

I am aware that the scope of this project may exceed the requirement of the program; however, I believe that it is an important topic that is critically relevant for US public health today. In the interest of time, if deemed necessary, I may select several US states to narrow my focus during my time at Data Incubator.
